1.
I chose Ubuntu mainly because other people around me use the same Ubuntu Linux. The strong community behind Ubuntu makes it an easy OS on the market. Googling on how to do something in Ubuntu will get you hundreds of relevant results which makes it easier for anyone who uses Ubuntu. Another plus side in using Ubuntu is its accessibility. If I continue to choose Ubuntu it’s easy to work with various CMS of PHP such as Laravel, Magneto, WordPress and many more. Apart from PHP, Ruby, Java, Python can easily be implemented in Ubuntu [2].
2.
Ubuntu features a comprehensive package management system for installing, upgrading, configuring, and removing software. One of the package management system Ubuntu is the apt command. The apt command is a powerful command-line tool, which works with Ubuntu’s Advanced Packaging Tool (APT) performing such functions as installation of new software packages, upgrade of existing software packages, updating of the package list index, and upgrading the entire Ubuntu system [2].
Pacman is the default package manager on Arch-based distros. It combines a simple binary package format with an easy-to-use build system. The goal of pacman is to make it possible to easily manage packages, whether they are from the official repositories or the user's own builds.
Like Ubuntu, Arch Linux also has several repositories from where you can get your packages. If a package with the same name is available on multiple repositories, choose which one you want by specifying the name of the repository [9].
Since GNOME 3.36 is a default Ubuntu 20.04 desktop environment I chose to not install additional GUIs and use the default desktop environment. It includes a variety of desktop applications and its aim is to make a Linux system easy to use for non-programmers. It results in better performance and a more aesthetically pleasing graphical experience [2].
Pantheon is the default desktop environment, for ArchLinux, originally created for the elementary OS distribution. It is written from scratch using Vala and the GTK3 toolkit. With regards to usability and appearance, the desktop has some similarities with GNOME Shell and macOS [9].
Ubuntu’s default shell uses bash. Since this class has done some serious coding in bash, I thought it be safer to use what I already know and expand my knowledge further by continuously writing code in bash.
ArchLinux’s default shell also uses bash.
The current release schedule for Ubuntu is version 22.04 – “Jammy Jellyfish” on April 2022 [6].
The current release schedule for ArchLinux is version 2022.11.01 on November 2022 [1].
Arch Linux
Pro: Arch Linux uses the rolling release model, so users don’t have to worry about upgrading every now and then. Once you install Arch users no longer have to upgrading to a new version as updates occur continuously. By default, users will always be using the latest version.
Con: While updates flow in continuously, users have to consciously track what comes in. Since nobody knows a user’s personal software’s specific configuration and it’s not tested by anyone but that user. Users have to pay extra caution because things could break on the machine [7].
Ubuntu
Pro: Since OS is open-source, one of the many benefits of open-source software is that there is an active community that can help in fixing bugs or introducing new updates or features faster and more efficiently. The same community can help users with troubleshooting and customization requirements.
Con: Some users have reported driver issues or compatibility between the operating system and the hardware specifications of their computers. There have been occasional stories of wireless card drivers not working or a printer not connecting to the computer due to an unidentified hardware problem. This is a critical disadvantage of Ubuntu’s Software and Hardware Compatibility [8].
3.
The idea behind the tiling window manager is to efficiently and automatically organize your desktop for you. Basically, you open one app and it places it, automatically maximized, on your screen. Open another app and it splits the screen with the first app. Continue opening apps and you’ll find each app continues to split. A regular windows manager provides features such as the ability to minimize, maximize and close opened windows. The placement, effects, colors and transitioning may also be part of window managers. i3 is a free, open-source, and completely configurable windows manager app targeted at advanced Linux and BSD users and developers. It features a tree data structure that allows for more flexible layouts than its alternatives. Ubuntu does support tiling windows manager but those only work for edge tiling. Ubuntu, though more accurately GNOME Shell desktop, doesn’t let you snap windows to corners, also known as “quarter tiling”, out of the box. However, WinTile is a window tiling GNOME extension that supports all versions of Ubuntu [5].
4.
First, I installed the latest version of Ubuntu on their official website. Next, I installed the latest version of Rufus, a small application that can create bootable USB drives. From here I launched the .exe file and inserted a USB. Rufus will detect the USB automatically and all you needed to do was select the appropriate program, in this case it was 22.04 version of Ubuntu. All the other settings were left as default and I started the installation. There were additional downloads and write warnings but this was handled by clicking OK to all to let the program install. This completed the installation process. Fortunately, there were no technical difficulties on my end, and everything was safely downloaded. However, when booting the USB there were some concerns. To boot the USB, I changed the BIOS on my computer. BIOS has a setting where you can restart the computer automatically and run a USB. After restarting the computer, a screen prompting to install Ubuntu came up. To avoid this, I had to wait a couple of seconds where another screen had options for which USB to run on. This took a couple of tries since I had errors where Ubuntu would not run.
5.
Ubuntu did not come with vim or emac installed. To install vim the following command was entered:
$ sudo apt install vim
To uninstall vim package and local configuration files the following command was entered:
$ sudo apt purge –auto-remove vim
6.
Using the command df -H --total, the total disk size is 285G and 216G is used. Using the command df -i --total, the total Inodes is 48,453,614 the total IUsed is 977,427. To find the inode:storage ratio, you can divide 48,453,614 by 285G. From that the inode:storage ratio is 1:16 KB of system capacity. The file system for my distribution is ext4 which is the default file system for Linux distribution including Ubuntu.
7.
In a journaling file system, the information about the changes is recorded in a separate log (the journal) before the indexes to the files are updated. If a power or other system failure corrupts the indexes as they are being rewritten, the operating system can use the log to repair them when the computer is restarted [3].
Ext2 is not a journaling file system. It was the first file system to support extended file attributes and 2 terabyte drives. Ext2’s lack of a journal means it writes to disk less, which makes it useful for flash memory like USB drives [4].

